PETE LEPAGE: You can
now easily create
encapsulated, reusable web
components with Shadow DOM v1.
Mobile payments
become streamlined
with the Payment Request API.
The Web Bluetooth API is
available experimentally
on some platforms as an origin
trial, and there's plenty more.
I'm Pete LePage.
Let's dive in and see what's
new for developers in Chrome 53.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
HTML, CSS, and JavaScript are
powerful development languages.
But they can be difficult to
maintain in large code bases.
And if your app embeds
third-party content,
you need to ensure that
its included styles do not
affect other parts of your app.
Chrome 53 supports
Shadow DOM v1,
which allows an element to
encapsulate its style and child
DOM away from the main document.
Shadow DOM v1 has some
significant changes from v0,
and is broadly agreed upon
by major browser vendors.
Chrome will support
both versions of the API
until enough of you
have moved to v1.
Eric Bidelman has a great primer
on using Shadow DOM to create
self-contained, reusable web
components on Web Fundamentals.
Check it out.
Completing payments on the web
can be a cumbersome process
for users.
Autofill has made it easier
to enter information.
But trying to complete a
checkout form on mobile
is still a challenge.
Chrome 53 on Android adds
support for the Payment
Request API, a new spec from
the W3C that provides fast,
seamless, and secure payments
on the web using a credit card
or other payment provider,
like Android Pay.
It also lets users provide
a billing address, shipping
details, and other
payer information
without having to type anything.
Expect to see support for
more platforms coming soon.
But in the meantime, check
out Eiji's Payment Request API
Integration Guide
on web fundamentals
at g.co/paymentrequestapi.
The Web Bluetooth
API is available
experimentally on some
platforms as an origin trial,
allowing sites to communicate
with nearby devices using
the Bluetooth Generic
Attribute Profile.
Sites that send notifications
to Android devices running
Marshmallow or later
can now provide
the badge shown in the status
bar instead of the Chrome logo.
And finally, Chrome
on Android now
allows muted videos
to begin playing
without user interaction.
If the video was marked as muted
and has the autoplay attribute,
Chrome will start
playing the video when
it comes visible to the user.
These are just a few of
the changes in Chrome 53
for developers.
Check the description for
more details and links
to the documentation
and specifications.
If you want to stay
up-to-date with Chrome
and know what's coming,
click that Subscribe button
up there, or up there,
or somewhere up there.
Anyways, I'm Pete LePage.
And as soon as Chrome
54 is released,
I'll be right here to tell
you what's new in Chrome.
[MUSIC PLAYING]